audio1.wav|Sherlock Holmes, The Rediscovered Railway Mysteries and Other Stories by John Taylor, read by Benedict Cumberbatch. An inscrutable mask garade. In a drawer in the bureau of an upstairs room of my current home. There is a locked cedar wood box which I inherited as a youth from my grandfather. This is one might say my box of secrets when I was young. It contained the treasures of boyhood, a catapult, a lump of bees wax, the carapace of a crab. For many years since, it has been the repository of an archive, admittedly a ragged and disordered archive, a collection of notes and scribblings concerning some of the many cases of my lifelong friend, the consulting detective Sherlock Holmes, which for one reason or another, I never took the trouble to write into proper reports. Having had recently a little time on my hands, I reopened this box of yellowing notebooks and it seemed to me that several of the cases, given the ocean of time between those events and the present day would now bear telling and I begin by chronicling an adventure which I may have dismissed for several reasons not because it lacked baffling and intriguing elements on the contrary, but mostly I think because it was for me personally such a dizzying and distressing experience. It was a Wednesday evening in July, at the end of a day of straight jacketing heat and I sat next to the open window of our parlor at Baker Street drinking in the air and hoping for the liberating ripple of a breeze. The newspaper on my lap reported the release from police custody of a known criminal Tabaius Organ, arrested some days previously for the murder of Max Zimmerman, a money lender shot through the head in his small apartment in Wardaw Street. In the end, there had been insufficient evidence to charge Organ with murder even though the police clearly thought him culpable. Strangely enough, I had once met Organ myself he had come to me as a patient suffering as I recall, from a severe lesion to the lower back, which he maintained had been caused by a fall against a metal stanchion but which I had little doubt was in fact a stab wound. My diagnosis was supported I believe by his barely veiled threat that I should under no circumstances make known his injury to any one else. He had an unforgettable, menacing way with him and I had felt immense relief when he left my surgery. I'd been looking forward to discussing the organ case with Holmes, who would certainly have some views on the subject. But when he finally appeared for dinner, he was irritable and uncommunicative and from these symptoms, I guessed him to be in the process of some taxing mental work. All the same I had no wish to set out the meal in silence stifling weather to be out and about homes I said peppering a slice of beef indeed Watson and equally stifling to be in he busied himself with cutting into a potato. After a while, I said, I've not seen you to day. I presume you were somewhere on business. Yes Watson I was another pause, the chink of cutlery somewhere local somewhere very local watson I'd expect you'd like to know where. Well, I've no wish to be intrusive in the basement. I've been all day in the basement of our house and since your desire not to be intrusive is clearly struggling against your overwhelming curiosity to know, I will tell you why I was there and he paused and smiled in the full confidence that you will not breathe a word to a soul about it. My homes, of course not and on the understanding that if I do tell you, you will not be able to leave this house until my work is complete. What I put down, almost dropped my knife and fork. You don't mean not leave it all that's precisely what I mean. So it may be that you would prefer to forgo my secret rather than consent to becoming a prisoner here for what might be several days hopelessly intrigued, I gave no thought to the discomfort of being shut indoors in this sultry heat No thought to the boredom, not even any thought to the fact that I had appointments in my diary. I am prepared to abide by your request. HOLMES He stood up from the table, his meal unfinished and went across to the hearth to retrieve his pipe and tobacco pouch. As he filled his pipe and lit it, he sank into his armchair. I believe you have been preoccupied with the case of Tabias Organ. WATSON Yes it has been on my mind how 
audio2.wav|you twice left the newspaper open at that page The money lender, Zimmerman, a legitimate businessman with a wife and young children, was murdered with an army rifle. The police have many reasons for believing Tubias Organ to be guilty of the crime and one of these is that he owns an army rifle. Organ, of course, denies that his firearm is the murder weapon.Well, yes I said one would expect he would but suppose said Holmes Suppose there was a science which could with certainty tie a bullet to the gun which fired it Well, that would be marvelous, I said but there isn't. Is there? Well, WATSON Let us say that such a science is seminal. It is exactly this problem which I am wrestling with At present In the basement of the house, I've set up a laboratory of sorts down there where I can conduct some experiments. Progress is promising and if the results are as I expect, they will certainly send T Bias Organ to the gallows. But Organ is an utterly ruthless villain, undoubtedly guilty of a number of murders, but devious enough always to palm them off on others. If he were to gain even an inkling of my work, we would be in the utmost danger. I can see that you would be in danger homes but how might I be? As I say? WATSON Organ is ruthless to get at any enemy. His favorite trick is to abduct someone close to his adversary often with I'm afraid horrific consequences You know too much now and since I'm not prepared to put you at risk in that way, I fear You must sit it out in these apartments You must not answer the door You must stay away from the windows No visitors You must lead the life of a prisoner until such time as this matter is settled. Well, I said it might be good for me. I have a medical paper to write and the period of confinement might induce me to keep my nose to my studies. Excellent WATSON I am sure your sacrifice will not be in vain. I really did not see myself sacrificing very much at all. I spent the evening cancelling all appointments of the following week and went to bed rather looking forward to a few days of fruitful incarceration. The morning found me in a hopeful mood in what appeared to be an empty house. Holmes I presumed had already descended to his basement laboratory. Our landlady Missus Hudson had left me a pleasant cold breakfast, an indication that she herself had had to leave the house early. The day, while already warm and bright had not yet begun to turn oppressive. The clock over the hearth ticked slowly as I settled down to my books experiencing for the first time since my student years, some of the quiet ecstasy of study. By midday, the room had become hot. My concentration meanded and thirst plagued me. I wandered downstairs to Missus Hudson's apartment and found her still absent. So I proceeded down to the basement to ask Holmes whether he knew what arrangements had been made for lunch. The door to the basement was shut and when I tried the handle, I found it to be locked from within. I could hear the occasional crack of what sounded like a gun being fired and the grind of metal on metal like ball bearings rolling round an iron ball. Holmes Are you there? WATSON What are you doing here? I'm in the process of an investigation. Indeed yes I'm trying to find out what's happening about luncheon. You'll have to prepare something for yourself he called back. I'm afraid I've sent Missus Hudson away. I cannot risk the lives of innocent people and Watson be so good as to keep away from the basement. Confine yourself to our own rooms and to the kitchen. There's a good fellow very well Holmes but yes, I really would very much like a newspaper. I'm afraid you must do without. Neither of us could take the chance of leaving here until this business is complete. Now please let me get on. I trundled to the kitchen. I managed to find myself some bread and cheese, which I took back upstairs. Our rooms were now very hot and since I was forbidden to sit near the window, I ate my luncheon over my books, dropping crumbs into the creases of Graze anatomy and beginning to feel restless. After lunch I managed to force myself to a little more work but by three o'clock had fallen asleep in the arm chair I woke to hear the sounds of evening traffic moving along Baker Street. I listened with something like envy to the busy hubbub of those who were free to come and go, who had families to return to and simple feasts awaiting them at convivial tables. My lot seemed bleak by comparison. Holmes did not emerge from his infernal basement and Missus Hudson did not appear with an evening meal. I cannot recall how the rest of the evening passed. The heat absorbed during the day by London's pavements now radiated back to thicken the evening air. The world outside of which I had no news 
audio3.wav|became gradually silent and I, hungry and disconsolate went finally to bed.The next morning after a makeshift breakfast, I got down to some work and was well into the argument of the paper I was writing when I began to realize that the room was again beginning to become airless and oven like determined not to succumb to lethargy as I had the previous afternoon.I decided that despite Holmes's strict embargo on going near the window, I simply must have some air.As I raised the sash, I saw a cab approaching along Baker Street and stopping directly beneath the window.The passenger who stepped out was Nicolas Cartwright, an old university friend now writing for the Times.I hadn't seen him for a couple of months and he seemed about to pay a surprise visit.Desperate as I was for company I could not forget the promise I had made to Holmes to admit no visitors.The doorbell rang. My first idea was to wait for Cartwright to give up and go away but there quickly came a second ring and with it a call from the street through the now open window.What sirA note of anxiety in his voice suggesting that all was not well.Cartwright was a good friend. I did not see how I could linger there pretending to be deaf when he might be in need of my help.I dashed down the stairs and opened the front door. Watson is so pleased to have found you.The statement immediately struck me as odd as did Cartwright's whole demeanor but mindful of the proximity of Holmes in his makeshift laboratory, I whispered Look, Oh chap,odd things are going on. Come up as quietly as you can I'll explain there a sudden sharp crack issued from the depths of the house and I hoped that preoccupied as he was, Holmes would have no inkling of the presence of my visitor.As we entered the parlor and shut the door, Cartwright said Watson, I've been worried about you.I didn't even know if I'd find you here worried.Yes the story in the Gazette regarding yourself and Mister Holmes did you know it was in the papers Cart write I haven't the least idea what you're talking about.And as for newspapers, I haven't seen one in days here.He tossed me the paper open at about the third or 4th page and I read the following headline and accompanying article. Charlock Holmes and Doctor Watson part company.After several years of celebrated collaboration, the eminent consulting detective Mister Sherlock Holmes and his medical companion Doctor John Watsonhave terminated their professional partnership and it seems simultaneously ended their personal friendship.Mister Holmes said that while he continued to hold Doctor Watson in high esteem and to regard him as a man of exceptional honor and professional competence, circumstances upon which he could not and would not elaborate had made it expedient for them to go their separate ways.There was no comment from Doctor Watson.I stood for a moment holding the newspaper and averting my gaze from Cartwright, who had written this.Did Holmes know about it? Was there some truth in it?Was Holmes's exile to the basement a way of keeping me at bay while he found alternative lodgings.This is to Day's Gazette.Yes Watson I see you knew nothing about this.Am I speaking to you as a friend Cartwright or as a journalist?Well, I suppose unfortunately as a friend John I say unfortunately because this is clearly a damned good story.But if you wish to talk to me off the record, so be it off the record then I know nothing of this and I don't know whether Holmes has had a hand in it.He's conducting some very secret business at present and possibly it's connected to that.That's all I can tell you.I'm afraid one thing does baffle me, Cartwright said.How did the Gazette get the story without us getting it too?Anyway, I won't make anything of this John until you give me the go ahead but I hope if there does turn out to be an exclusive, you'll be the one to get it.I said thank you Nicholas.I saw him down the stairs and closed the front door behind him, finding myself relieved that he had gone.I had no idea that I would be singing him again soon under even more peculiar circumstances but determined that now I must confront Holmes with this business.I knocked on the door of the basement.Holmes A long silence Holmes We must speak not now WATSON Holmes There's something I must discuss with you urgently.Something in the newspaper There was a scuffling and the basement door opened Newspaper How did you get a newspaper?
audio4.wav|Cartwright called. He'd seen an article. Yes Holmes interrupted. Yes the article. I dare say you would appreciate an explanation. Give me half an hour. A little later we sat opposite one another in our sitting room. The evening was still close and oppressive The newspaper article said Holmes was an unfortunate necessity. I hope it has not caused you too much embarrassment.WATSON And when this business is finished, all will be rectified. But why I said reporters as having quarrelled. Bear with me Watson I beg of you as you know, I have tried to keep my work here secret But how certain can one be of that? The police are involved in these matters and are aware of my experiments and who knows whether some junior or even senior member of the force is not in league with that utterly ruthless villain? Now having been alerted to that newspaper report, might it not be the case that to bias organ would assume that you were no longer in London at any rate He would certainly be likely to assume you were no longer sharing these premises with me. You gave the story to the Gazette to protect me Yes Watson That was my purpose. I just wish that you'd consulted me first. You are not supposed even to know about it Watson And if you had not had a visit from Cartwright, you would never have seen the article. It was unfortunate that he came when he did. It was the article that brought him. Yes, a miscalculation on my part. Now it is late work to do to Morrow and I must insist on extracting from you another guarantee. What's that? Holmes That you will not under any circumstances interrupt my work again It's all very delicate and a disturbance at an inopportune moment could ruin everything. Is that clear? Not under any circumstance that night I lay awake in the muggy heat The bed clothes pulled back and grieved for what I calculated to be the death of my reputation. At least I imagined that's how the world would see it or at least that portion of the world that reads the London Gazette. Holmes and Watson have parted company. But there is no comment from Watson, only a nobly worded validiction from the great detective. Such bitter thoughts polluted my restless waking and tormented my subsequent dreams and added to all this, there lay a sense that things were still not clear, that something crucial remained unspoken. I woke early but exhausted without going near the window I took in what I could of the wakening day. The street was quiet. I dressed slowly and descended to the kitchen to find something to eat. The rattles and sharp cracks of Holmes's experiments had already come to life below in the basement and I wondered whether he had even bothered to go to bed. I was making a pot of tea when the door bell sounded the noises from the cellar did not pause so I assumed that Holmes had not heard the bell. I could see nothing of the front of the house, from the kitchen. But after I had taken a few steps up into the lobby, it became clear by means of a side window that the visitor was once again Nicolas Cartwright. I went to the door and admitted him. Cartwright What's going on? WATSON What do you mean? I mean what game is being played here? CITE right I've no idea what you're referring to. You'd better come up. He was I could tell steaming with anger though I had no idea what I could have done to arouse it. He would not sit. He stood with his arms behind his back a man preparing to deliver an accusation. You told me you were inescapably confined to this house Yes Cartwright And so I have been. This is the third day excluding yesterday night. You mean no I was here yesterday night too tossing and turning in my bed at the thought of my ruined reputation. WATSON See here yesterday you prevailed upon my friendship by confiding in me matters which as a journalist I considered more than worthy of publication. Had I known that you were deceiving me? CARTRIGHT You have my word I was not deceiving you. I have not left this house since Monday afternoon So you have a twin brother? No, I do not. Then please explain to me who was the man outside the restaurant at Marleban Station at five past midnight I take it He resembled me more than resembled. I do hope you are being truthful with me. WATSON I could see that his suspicions were not allayed. I even began to wonder whether my restless period of waking the previous night had itself been a dream and whether I had been sleep walking
audio5.wav|Such things are possible I know and the heat, my fatigue and the events of the last days had left me so baffled that in that moment of confusion I could not entirely rule it out. What's happened, he said, was that I was walking through the station concourse when I spotted you by the wall of the restaurant, which by then was closed talking to a man in a brown felt hat. I would have approached you but when I caught your eye, you cut me as dead as if you didn't know me and I assumed your conversation was of some importance. The more I thought about it, the more I thought it was a poor way to treat a good friend. Suddenly, the fog in my brain gave way to an horrific clarity. I knew that I must rid myself of Cartwright at once. Thank you for telling me this. I said it is of the utmost importance But Nicholas and I pray you won't take this amiss. I must ask you to leave to leave. Please This is a fearfully serious business. There is real danger. You're not just trying to get me out of the way WATSON That's exactly what I'm trying to do Cartwright But for the very good reason, believe me you will have your story very well John very well at the front door He patted me amiably on the shoulder. I shut the door on him and leaned against the wall trying to get my thoughts in order. Holmes had instructed me not under any circumstances to trouble him again yet this situation was possibly critical. If Tubius Organ had hired some impersonated look and sound so like me that even Cartwright, who had known me for years, could be convinced, then Holmes might also be deceived. And then what power they would have in their hands if I could not speak to Holmes, I could at least alert him by other means. I ran up the stairs with the idea of writing a note which I could slip under the basement door. But as I reached our rooms, I heard a cry from the street. Without thinking, I ran to the parlor window a 100 yards southwards along Baker Street three men were struggling. Two of them were bundling the third man into a cab against his will. It was Cartwright. I dashed down the stairs and ran into the street. The driver of the cab had already whipped up the horse and moved off at a lick. But I gave chase, fury and outrage fueling my progress. I pursued them for a good half a mile until eventually they outpaced me and I stood gasping for breath outside Saint Vincent's church. I sat on the pavement. I needed Holmes's help. The transgression of a broken promise was a trivial thing. Surely in the context of this appalling incident, I would go to him immediately aware that in the haste of my pursuit, I had left the front door of the house open. A new anxiety overcame me. Clearly, this kidnap was the work of Organ's ruffians and who was to say that they would not take advantage of an open door? I trotted as briskly as I could back to Baker Street but the door was no longer open and on such a close and windless day, I thought it unlikely it had been closed by a draught. The horrible thought occurred to me that some one may have already got in and then everything seemed to tumble into place. Cartwright's abduction had been intended to draw me out of the house so that the man masquerading as myself could gain entry. Holmes would be unaware of this. He would eventually open the door of the basement to his assailant and believing it was myself he was admitting would offer the easiest of targets. I had left the house without a key, but I knew there was a possibility of access via the rear of the terrace. This entailed my knocking at the door of our neighbor, Missus Harban, an elderly, amiable woman who seemed happy to allow me access to the rear of the building here I was obliged to scale a wall to the yard outside the back of our own dingy basement, the front room being that which Homes had taken for his makeshift laboratory. There was no light within. I opened the door with infinite slowness. The noise of Homes's experiments seemed to have stopped. The door that connected this room to the front half of the basement was 6 or 7 short paces away but it was too dark to see whether the bare floorboards were liable to move and groan. When I trod upon them I tested each step before lowering my weight and moved with the floating motion of a rather overweight pantomime artist one. Then there 
audio6.wav|was movement behind me. A hand was clamped across my mouth and an arm locked around my throat. The grip was expert. I could not breathe or move the hot breath of my assailant in my ear whispered Doctor, do not cry out. I'm going to release you and you will turn round slowly and face me. You must not make a sound tap hand if you understand. I reached up to the hand around my throat and obediently I tapped it. The arm released me and as quietly as I could I took a deep draught of air turning as I did so astrayed. SH Yes Doctor, I wasn't expecting you here or rather in a sense I was but since you are just about to arrive, I wasn't expecting you to come in the back way as well. The policeman smirked at his little conundrum. Will you explain to me? I began what on earth you mean not now doctor he said glad you're ear though sir an additional pair of ears up close to the door now and listen It won't be long. It was indeed less than a minute before we heard the door from the front of the house opening into the laboratory and the arrival of what sounded like two men. The door was closed with a thump and a gruff voice said so this is it Yes this is where he's working. There was something familiar about that second voice and he won't be back for a while. No half an hour I should think at that moment with a shock I recognized the other voice. It was my own. I turned to Lastrade again, but he just put his finger to his lips and indicated that I should continue to listen. So what's the plan? Then asked the gruff voice within to match the bullet that killed Maximemon with the ones from your gun said my voice. The police know you killed him, but they need homes to provide them with evidence that will convince a jury.